# Self-Organization-One-Species

This Github repository contains the codes used to generate the results found in the paper "Linking discrete and continuous models of cell birth and migration" by W. Duncan Martinson, Alexandria Volkening, Markus Schmidtchen, Chandrasekhar Venkataraman, and José A. Carrillo. The folders "Combined", "Proliferation", and "Migration" refer to codes used to simulate the combined (birth + movement) model, the birth-only model, and the movement-only model, respectively. Each folder contains two directories that are used to create agent-based model (ABM) results or continuous (PDE) model results. 

For PDE codes, the "scripts" folder contains the main files used to simulate the main models,  while the "src" directories contain all of the necessary dependencies used to generate continuous model solutions. The "..._single_run.jl" files generate one PDE solution, and need to be edited to input the correct parameter values. The "comparison _..jl" files are used to fit parameter values by minimising the sum of squared errors between PDE and ensemble average ABM solutions. These files will need to be edited to refer to the correct folders in which ABM data are located, and need to be edited to adjust the initial guess for the PDE parameter values. Finally, the "parameter_sweep.jl" files are used to generate the L2 surface plots seen in the main text. They sweep over various values of aMM, gamma, and c+ and evaluate the sum of squared errors between ensemble average ABM solutions. These files will have to be edited to refer to the correct locations of the data. Other scripts files are used to make plots resembling those of the final manuscript. 

The ABM codes needed to generate synthetic data can all be found under their respective "src" directories. They must be edited to ensure the correct initial condition, cell densities, and parameter values are used. The ABM codes are commented for ease of use.
